may 31st meeting notes:
separate study possible on effect of covid (in future years)
look at other factors in the county-cohort groups, look at obesity, socioeconomic status, other stuff
create a map of what counties are in the cohorts
are there other factors that might contribute to an increase in mortality?
look at other factors, other things in the cardiac area?
	maybe whole cardiac cohorts
	# of diagnosis
what is avaliable for these counties?
don't focus on the DIDs right now

the ultimate goal of the project is to expand my skills in data science, find an interesting result

sessions:
5/31
1 (10 pm): organize and prioritize for the next few days from the meeting, organize honr 497 assignments (don't mention that), created timesheet for hours
2: emailed dr. palanki about looking at using other factors for the county-cohort groups, downloaded 11 different factors

why does heart disease mortality go up after 2014 in the low and medium county-cohorts?
	what are contributing factors to that increase? Dr. Palanki will ask a cardiologist
		We can get the same data from CDC wonder and the Atlas by following the definition of preventable/avoidable death that the CDC Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report used in their paper: “In this report, avoidable deaths include all deaths among persons aged <75 years with an underlying cause of ischemic heart disease (International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision [ICD-10] codes I20–I25), cerebrovascular disease (stroke) (I60–I69), hypertensive disease (I10–I15), or chronic rheumatic heart disease (I05–I09) (2).”
		
6/1
goals:
	-create graphs based on groupings of the social factors downloaded yesterday
	-find yearly county data on obesity rates and graph it with heart disease -> should be correlated
1: finish up mentor-mentee agreement, updated RStudio, fixed old project that didn't make a snapshot in renv
2: start working on the groupings, the split() and cut() functions make this a way simpler process
3: created script to split obesity into 4 groups, create a plot series with the heartdisease data, then plot it. should be relatively easy to abstract and reuse for more plots
4: abstracted it and now i can make plots for all of them, saved all the .pdf files, wrote email to Dr. Palanki
5: find county-level obesity data over time
6: try find the lead, where is this data?? found it!
7-ish: cleaning obesity data, removing rows with missing data

we have groups of fips
for each group:
	for each year:
		average the heart disease rate of all of the fips in the group
		add a row with the year, the average, and the group to the series
